in this video we are going to look at
the last type of plant that we're going
to study and that is the angiosperms so
we've looked at the mosses and we've
looked at the ferns which muscles are
the nonvascular plants ferns are the
vascular plants but they're seedless and
then we've looked at the gymnosperms
which are the vascular plants that use
seeds and the angiosperms are vascular
plants that use seeds but what separates
them from the gymnosperms is that they
use flowers and so here we've got lots
of nice pictures of different flowers so
the first thing we have to do is we have
to look at the actual structure of
flowers and see how that is different
scheme there see what those parts are so
that we can discuss the lifecycle so
here's our flower and what we're gonna
do is we are going to explore the
structure a little bit so if we want to
start at the bottom um at the very
bottom of the flower we have what's
called the receptacle and that is just
simply this area right here and that is
where the flower actually attaches to
the stem or the chute and it's just it's
usually kind of a thicker part of the
stem at the end and it's essentially
just what the flower grows out of the
next thing moving up is the sepals and
if you look on any flower these are just
going to be they almost look like little
green leaves but they're not really
leaves and they are going to be
underneath the flower when the when
flowers are budding the sepals are
actually what enclosed the flower so as
you can see in this picture right here
the newly forming flower the petals are
right here that's always the color part
but the sepals are actually this green
part that actually surround the budding
flower the
think moving up from the sepals is
actually going to be what most people
think of when they think of flowers and
that's the petals so the petals are
actually the colored part of the flower
and their primary purpose is to attract
pollinators to be nice and bright and
pretty in the springtime because unlike
gymnosperms gymnosperms we said disperse
their pollen by wind but angiosperms are
going to disperse their pollen mostly by
the organisms by insects moths and flies
and bees and hummingbirds that are going
to actually get in the flower to get
nectar which is a sweet sugary material
gonna get pollen on them and travel to
the next flower as far as the actual
reproductive parts of the flower go
let's start by looking at the male
structures so we're going to be looking
at the male hope that's not the male
there you go the male structure of the
flower and this is going to be what we
call the stamen and as you can see on
this picture there are three statements
on each side so there's three or excuse
me I guess actually I should draw there
we go
three stamen on each side four in this
picture a total of six and that's going
to be very important later when we talk
about the difference in monocots and
dicots or eudicots the stamen is made up
of two parts it's made up of the anther
which is the top part and that's what
actually produces the pollen so when the
pollinators get down inside the flower
they will be searching for that nectar
and they will get pollen from the anther
stuck on them and they'll carry it to
other flowers and then the part of the
flower that the anther actually sits on
is what we call the filament so together
the anther and the filament make up the
male part which is the stamen now if we
want to talk about the
no structure of the flower female
structure is a little bit more
complicated the entire structure is
called the carpel sometimes you will see
it called the pistil so those words are
interchangeable with one another and it
has three parts at the very top it has
what's called the stigma and this is
where pollen will actually attach so if
this fire were to self pollinate pollen
from the anther would get stuck on top
of the stigma the stigma is held up by
the style so just like the anther gets
held up by the filament the stigma gets
held up by the style and pollen will
actually eventually make its way down so
once pollen actually lands on the stigma
there will a pollen tube will form and
the sperm and the pollen will actually
travel down this tube until they get to
the micropyle which is just like in the
gymnosperms is an opening by which the
pollen and sperm can actually get to the
eggs and so all that happens in the
style and then the final part of the
carpel or the pistol is what we call the
ovary and this is analogous to good to
point out it's analogous and not
homologous it's analogous to the ovary
of mammals it's actually the part of the
flower that produces the eggs so to do a
very quick recap of this whole thing we
have the receptacle which is what the
flower actually sits on we have the
sepal which is the green parts that kind
of contain the flower while it's
developing and until it buds and it
splits open we have the petals which are
the colored parts that we're all
familiar with that attract the
pollinators have nice bright colors we
have the male part of the plant which is
the stamen and it is made up of the
anther and the filament the anther is
what produces pollen the filament kind
of
holds the anthers up and then we have
the female part of the flower which is
the carpel sometimes called the pistil
and it is made of three parts it is made
up of a stigma which is where the pollen
actually attaches the stigma sits on top
of the style and a pollen tube will form
down that to the micropyle so that the
sperm can pass and get to the eggs and
those eggs are contained in the ovary
which is going to be this structure here
the ovary is actually going to become
the fruit because the second thing that
angiosperms have the gymnosperms don't
have is fruit so they have flowers and
the flower gives rise to actually the
ovary of the flower gives rise to the
fruit now let's look at the actual
reproductive cycle of angiosperms and
see how it's different from that of
gymnosperms as always we are going to
start with fertilization fertilization
is where the egg and sperm come together
and we go from having two haploids to
having one diploid which is always going
to be the zygote so this happens inside
the ovary now we said the ovary is what
actually is is where the eggs are
produced and that's where fertilization
is going to occur now if we zoom in on
this picture a little bit we'll see a
very interesting thing that most people
are not aware of when they think of
flowers what we can actually see is that
we've got a couple of different things
going on we have the zygote which is
something that we're used to having
which is diploid but then we have
something here that is triploid and this
is going to be new so this this is a
part of the flower that's actually going
to have three sets of and we'll talk
about in a minute how that actually
comes about but this is called the
endosperm and the endosperm is actually
going to
eventually be a part of the flower that
is going to nourish the growing embryo
and this is going to be something that
is new in flowering plants that we don't
really see in in gymnosperms and so here
if we look up a little bit higher we
have the endosperm which is triploid and
then we have the embryo which is diploid
and we're used to seeing the embryo and
then of course we have the seed coat
which which we have is it's just like
what we have in gymnosperms the only
real difference the gymnosperms have a
seed coat they have the embryo which
together make the seed but they don't
have this in dispersion this endosperm
is going to help to nourish it's going
to provide nourishment to the embryo as
it grows now the seed is going to fall
on fertile ground and it is going to
germinate and it is going to become a
plant it could be a tree there's lots of
different you know we have grasses that
give flowers with trees and shrubs and
bushes that are flowering plants but the
ultimate end here is we are going to
produce the flower and just like we saw
in the last the first part of this video
the the flower is going to be
differentiated in its sexual structures
it's going to have the male part in the
female part so if we focus focus first
on the male part of the plant which is
the anther there well the part of it is
the anther and that is what's actually
going to give rise to the pollen very
similar just like in the gymnosperms the
the anther is gonna have micro sporangia
if you'll recall micro is always gonna
refer to pollen and sperms and mega is
always gonna refer to eggs and ovules
and whatnot so the micro sporangium is
going to by mitosis produce micro spore
Oh sites and remember site means cells
so these are small cells and they are
diploid so again whenever you go from
diploid to diploid or if you go from
haploid to haploid that is mitosis that
is not meiosis
so these micro spore sites get produced
by mitosis and then they are going to by
meiosis give rise to micro spores which
will be hot Boyd so meiosis always goes
from diploid two haploid these micro
spores are really going to give rise to
the male gametophyte which is which is
inside of the pollen tube and that's
very similar to what happens in the
gymnosperms and just like in the
gymnosperms the pollen is going to find
its way to the micropyle of the flower
and then it's going to actually
fertilize so by mitosis you will have a
pollen grain will by mitosis produce
sperm so you'll be you'll have a haploid
pollen that is going to produce haploid
sperm and that's gonna be done by
mitosis and so now let's look at the
female part of the flower we have the
ovary which is shown here and inside of
the ovary it has ovules now if you'll
recall the gymnosperms do not have
ovaries they did have ovules
if you look at the actual cone of the
gymnast sperm
it has ovules in it but they don't
actually have ovaries and like we've
seen before inside the ovary is going to
be megasporangium which out which are
diploid and they are going to give rise
to megaspores and that's going to occur
by meiosis so we're going from being
deployed to being haploid so now we have
these haploid megaspores now only one of
these mega spores is actually going to
become the egg the other mega spores
will have different purposes they will
actually give rise to the endosperm
which is going to help the egg help
excuse me healthy to nourish the embryo
as it develops so if we look down here
we have the mega spores which are
haploid and by this time
the sperm have been made by mitosis and
they have traveled down the pollen tube
and they are making their way to the
micropyle at which point they will
actually fertilize the egg so here we
have the sperm they have moved down and
they are going to come in and they are
going to fertilize the egg now some of
these other sperm will actually
fertilize some of these other structures
we have within the obviou we have
antipodal cells and we have synergies it
would be the combination of the sperm
and some of these structures that
actually give rise to the industry the
main thing to remember is that the indus
purpose is to actually assist the embryo
and survive and give it a little bit of
nutrients and the entire of you'll
excuse me the entire ovary if we want to
kind of back up a little bit here is the
ovary and so the ovary has several
ovules inside of it is going to develop
into the fruit so if this were an apple
tree that would develop into the apple
if it were a peach or a plum tree it
would develop into the peach or the
plunge so whatever the actual fruit is
of the plant the ovary is going to
develop into that and it will help
protect the seeds and also you know by
being eaten by other organisms it helps
to spread the seeds so let's do a very
quick recap of the life cycle here if we
want to start at fertilization the egg
and sperm come together and that happens
inside an ovule and the ovule itself is
contained inside the ovary the egg of
course the zygote is is diploid but it
has an end of sperm around it that is
triploid and that's going to help to
nourish it as it grows and so the actual
seed is going to be composed of the
embryo which we'll talk about a little
more later when we talk about monocots
versus dicots
it's surrounded by endosperm which is
triploid and that's going to help
nourish it and then that is all
surrounded by seed coat which helps to
protect the embryo is it's finding where
it needs to to be on land to germinate
so it's going to germinate eventually
it's going to grow big enough to produce
flowers the male part of the flower the
anther is going to have micro sporangium
which by mitosis will give rise to
microspore sites and those micro spore
sites by meiosis will give rise
alternately to pollen and then pollen
will once it lands on the stigma of the
flower will begin to make the pollen
tube and it will by mitosis produce
sperm and those sperm will travel down
to the ovary to fertilize the eggs and
various structures on the female part we
have the ovary which is eventually going
to become the fruit of the plant because
angiosperms are flowers and fruits it
has megasporangium which are going to
give rise by meiosis to megaspores
and one of those megaspores is going to
become an egg and then the egg will get
fertilized by the sperm and then that
will create the embryo and the process
will start over now the last thing we
need to do is let's just make a quick
comparison between gymnosperms and
excuse me that's not a gymnast burn
between angiosperms and gymnosperms so
here's our cycle for angiosperm here's
our cycle for our gymnosperm so some
major differences angiosperms obviously
have flowers and they have fruit
Jemma's firms do not but gymnosperms
have cones which they use for
reproduction
the primary differences is we have in
the angiosperms we have the ovary which
is going to give rise to the fruit and
we also have flowers that have the
different structures and another thing
is the reproductive structures of the
angiosperms the male
and the female are together they're both
in the flower whereas in the coniferous
plants the gymnosperms we have a male
cone which is the pollen cone and we
have a female cone which is the ovulate
cone so there's another difference
between the two and finally another
major reproductive difference between
angiosperms and gymnosperms is because
angiosperms have this flower they can
use pollinators to move their pollen
from the anther to the stigma of the
carpel and that's how they can pollinate
the gymnosperms have pollen that is
winged so if we actually zoomed in on
this a little bit you can kind of see
there's little wings on the pollen of
the gymnosperms and that's because they
are going to pollinate by wind